# ZFinfer_database

The database of ZFinfer included three types of data including chemical-protein interaction data, gene-phenotype interaction data, and phenotypes. The chemical-protein interaction data in Zebrafish were obtained from STITCH database (http://stitch.embl.de/download/protein_chemical.links.v5.0.tsv.gz).

The gene-phenotype interaction data and phenotype terms were extracted from the Zebrafish Information Network (ZFIN) (last access date: November 19, 2022). Three types of ontology terms, Gene Ontology (GO) 18, Zebrafish Anatomy Ontology (ZFA) (OWL version ZFA. http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/zfa.owl) and Zebrafish Phenotype Ontology (ZP) (OWL version ZP .http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/zp.owl), were used to describe the phenotypes. We utilized the gene-phenotype data based on two ontology systems, including the combination of GO and ZFA terms and ZP terms, to analyze the inferred phenotypes affected by given chemicals.

The data collection of gene-phenotype data covered both GO and ZFA terms and consisted of 38,116 non-redundant gene-phenotype associations, including 3,087 phenotypes from ZFIN (GOZFA_phenotype_to_Entrez_gene.json and GOZFA_phenotype_description.json). It was prepared from the existing 58,135 gene-phenotype associations in ZFIN, which excluded duplicate information and unclear Entrez gene ID. In ZFIN, the gene-phenotype data from the experimental observations were annotated by three statement tags of abnormal, ameliorated, and exacerbated. We selected the data with the abnormal tag and excluded the data with ameliorated and exacerbated tags since the information with these two tags provided duplicate information. Finally, the description and associated genes of the ontology terms were imported to the database collection, respectively. The GO terms provided a useful way to comprehend gene functions in terms of cellular components, molecular functions, and biological processes. On the other hand, the ZFA terms offered a means to describe the anatomical system of zebrafish.
 
The ZP terms were utilized as the second set of gene-phenotype data consisting of 65,800 non-redundant gene-phenotype associations, including 20,554 phenotypes from ZFIN (ZP_phenotype_to_Entrez_gene.json and ZP_phenotype_description.json). The dataset was prepared from the existing 182,231 gene-phenotype associations in ZFIN, excluding duplicate information and unclear Entrez gene ID. ZP terms provided a way to formally define zebrafish phenotypes, consisting of structural or process terms from GO and ZFA terms, and quality terms from the Phenotype Quality Ontology (PATO).

The protein IDs can be mapped to corresponding Entrez gene IDs using the collection of Ensembl_protein_to_Entrez_gene (Ensembl_protein_to_Entrez_gene.json).
